Update document.domain deprecation README. (#1)
mikewest/deprecating-document-domain: README.md

# Origin Isolation and Deprecating `document.domain`

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Authors**: [Daniel Vogelheim](https://github.com/otherdaniel/), [Mike West](https://github.com/mikewest/)

```

## Background

The primary security boundary of the World Wide Web is the
[origin](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#origin). The
[same-origin policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy)
guarantees that one web page cannot access (modify, or extract data
from) another page, unless those pages are hosted on the same origin.
Several pages within an origin can fully cooperate as a single website,
but pages from different origins are isolated and cannot
interfere with each other.

The same origin policy is not just a proven and effective security boundary,
it is also intuitively understood by even novice users: What one does on a

> site, stays on that site.

Reviewer: Bringing "site" in here is perhaps counterproductive, insofar as sites are broader than origins, and are in fact the boundary that `document.domain` would posit.

Unfortunately, the details are substantially more complex. One particular
complexity revolves around the
[Spectre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spectre_%28security_vulnerability%29)
family of attacks and the `document.domain` accessor:

> Modern browsers [isolate different pages from each other](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/site-isolation), by seperating execution into

Reviewer: s/pages/sites/ since it's appropriate here?

different operating system processes. Pages that need to cooperate need to
be assigned to the same process. Pages that do not cooperate can be assigned
to different processes.

The Spectre attacks undermine this model, since they allow near-arbitrary
memory reads *within the same process*. In other words, we have a high-level
security boundary based on origins - the same-origin policy - and a low-level
security boundary based on the operating system processes. Spectre exposes a

> misalignement between them: The API enforces the same-origin policy, but if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
misalignment between them: The API enforces the same-origin policy, but if
```

Reviewer: Also: what API?

Spectre can be used to read data from anywhere in the same process, then this
will evade the same-origin policy if
[different origins are assigned to the
same process](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/docs/security/side-channel-threat-model.md#multiple-origins-within-a-siteinstance).
In practical terms, a script on an arbitrary domain could use
Spectre to read confidential data - like login passwords - from another origin
that happens to be assigned to the same process.

## A Problem

> The solution here is to align the developer- and user-visible high-level

Reviewer: Starting a section labeled "A Problem" with "The solution" is somewhat confusing. What's the problem that we're solving?

security boundaries with the low-level, system security boundaries.
That is, process isolation should be aligned with origins.

This would appear to be easily done, since process isolation is invisible
to the APIs, and therefore browsers are free to change their allocation
strategies at will. Except for one particular "trick":

Setting the `document.domain` accessor, which allows a page to modify its

> own origin (within a site, e.g. www.example.org to example.org). This allows

Reviewer: This isn't strictly true, as the mechanism's behavior is a little more subtle. Setting `document.domain` doesn't change `sub.example.com`'s origin to `example.com`; it only allows the page synchronous script access to a page on `example.com` that likewise asserts SOP relaxation.

pages or frames hosted on different origins to move themselves into the

> same origin. A example use case that we have observed are pages that host video

Reviewer: Likewise, the origin of the pages doesn't change. In the example we're discussing, `sub.example.com` doesn't lose access to `sub.example.com` storage, nor does it gain direct access to `example.com` storage. It instead retains its origin, and additionally gains the ability to work through a framed or popped-up `example.com` document to obtain such access.

content in an iframe, where the iframe is served from a different origin than
the main page. By setting document.domain, these might move themselves into
the same origin, and then the media player and main page can exchange data.

[Setting document.domain has been deprecated]((https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#relaxing-the-same-origin-restriction)

> for along time, but continues being supported by browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for a long time, but continues to be supported by browsers.
```

This forces process allocation to be by site,

> not by origin, because a page *might* use `document.domain` to change their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not by origin, because a page *might* use `document.domain` to change its
```

origin - within the site - later on. Measurements indicate that [setting

> `document.domain` happens on around 0.4% of page views](https://chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2544)  So 99% of pages do not even use this feature. But because they *might* want

Reviewer: That 0.5% metric shows the page views in which setting `document.domain` enabled access that wouldn't have been allowed if it hadn't been set. Likewise, https://chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2543 shows the pages in which setting `document.domain` blocked access that would otherwise have been allowed.

https://chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2026 is an order of magnitude higher, and shows the page loads upon which the setter was called, regardless of whether it had an impact on a security decision.

Author: Done. I'm still a little confused on the metrics, though... :)

to set `document.domain` later on, browsers have to allocate processes by site.

In other words: > 99% of page views pay for a feature - in terms of reduced
security - that they don't make any use of.

## A Proposal

> The [`Òrigin-Agent-Cluster:` http header](`Origin-Agent-Cluster:` header](https://web.dev/origin-agent-cluster/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`Origin-Agent-Cluster:` http header](https://web.dev/origin-agent-cluster/)
```

([spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#origin-keyed-agent-clusters))
allows a page to request being isolated by origin (instead of site). If set

> `true`(`Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?1`), the browser is asked to isolate pages by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`true` (`Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?1`), the browser is asked to isolate pages by
```

origin. (Agent Cluster is spec speak for isolation groups. Since the low-level
isolation is not visible at the API layer, specifications only cursorily
touches the subject.) As a side effect, writing to the  document.domain`

> accessor is blocked.

Reviewer: s/blocked/ignored/? I don't think we throw in this case, which (at least in my head) "blocked" might imply.

> Currently, bsence of the `Origin-Agent-Cluster:` header`defaults to `false`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, absence of the `Origin-Agent-Cluster` header defaults to `false`,
```

> meaning that an absent header forces isoaltion by site, rather than by origin,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meaning that an absent header forces clustering by site, rather than by origin,
```

and setting `document.domain` continues to work. The proposal here is to change
this default.

In detail:

* The `Origin-Agent-Cluster:` header will, when present, continue to work as
  it currently does. What will change is the default when the header is absent.

> * We'll Implement a console warning when a page would be affected by this
>   change: If the page assigns to `document.domain` but does not have
>   any `Origin-Agent-Cluster:` header set a warning is issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We'll implement a console warning when a page assigns to `document.domain`
  but does not set an `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` header.
```

> * We'll have a developer-enable-able feature flag that treats absence of
>   `Agent-Origin-Cluster:` header as having value true (`?1`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We'll build a feature flag that allows developers to opt-into the new default behavior
  locally in order to track down issues on their own sites.
```

* Then we wait.
* After developers have had some time to adjust, flip the flag, but leave it

>   disable-able.

Reviewer: What does "leave it disable-able" mean?

I think it might be pointing toward enterprise policies? If so, mentioning that explicitly by pulling the last bullet up here might be clearer.

Author: What I meant is that the flag would remain, and that developers can now disable the feature in the same way they could earlier enable it. I clarified the wording. Although maybe I should just drop it, since it doesn't really add much to the plan.

> * More waiting. Then remove the flag. Now the transition is
>   complete, and the only way to assign to document.domain is to set
>   `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` in the header.

Reviewer: Pedantic nit: Origin-keying the agent cluster won't block assignment (by e.g. throwing), but simply ignore calls to the setter. Perhaps we could add a few words to make that explicit?

```suggestion
* More waiting. Then remove the flag. Now the transition is
  complete, and the only way to relax the same-origin policy through
  document.domain is to send an `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` header.
```

* (Chrome-specific:) We expect to have an admin-setting for this flag, which
  would likely remain long-term.

## FAQ

> ### Who needs to opt-into the `document-domain` Document Policy?

Reviewer: This should reflect the new opt-in mechanism as well.

content in an iframe, where the iframe is served from a different origin than
the main page. By setting document.domain to their common domain suffix,
these can give each other access and e.g. the page can directly control the
player. To accomodate this usage, browsers will allocate those two pages
to the same process.

[Setting document.domain has been deprecated]((https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#relaxing-the-same-origin-restriction)
for a long time, but continues to be supported by browsers.
This forces process allocation to be by site,
not by origin, because a page *might* use `document.domain` to get cross-origin
access - within the site - later on. Measurements indicate that [enabling
cross-origin access by setting `document.domain` happens on around 0.5% of page views](https://chromestatus.com/metrics/feature/timeline/popularity/2544)  So 99% of pages do not even use this feature. But because they *might* want
to set `document.domain` later on, browsers have to allocate processes by site.

In other words: > 99% of page views pay for a feature - in terms of reduced
security - that they don't make any use of.

## A Proposal

> The [`Òrigin-Agent-Cluster` http header](https://web.dev/origin-agent-cluster/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`Origin-Agent-Cluster` http header](https://web.dev/origin-agent-cluster/)
```
